---
layout: post
title:  "I'm a Head Case"
date:   2020-05-20 19:03:00
categories: Short-Stories
---

I’m a head case. Since I got back from my bender of traveling, eating out, finishing a bottle of Knob Creek with my girlfriend’s father, I’ve been eating healthy, running, trying to relax. But on Thursday I had my biometric screening. You know, for your insurance to keep tabs on you.  I should know, I work for an insurance company.

Thursday morning, I wake up, take a few calls (I work from home). I avoid the urge to eat a banana, despite the instructions to fast before the screening. At 9:30 I drive downtown. I circle the block a few times, then find a parking spot. At 9:55 I’m on the 12th floor of some building near the hospital. I find the suite where a young nurse with a southern accent tells me to fill out my information on an iPad. I wait until 10:10, at which point she ushers me to the back room. I step on the scale. 179 pounds. I’ve lost weight. 6’ 4’’. I’ve really lost weight.

I follow her to the back of the room. She sits me down. I ask her how she is, and she says she wishes she wasn’t at work. I say I work from home. My heart starts to pound. The blood pressure cuff closes around my arm and I wonder to myself if my nervousness is having an effect. The cuff loosens. The monitor reads 146/73 with a pulse of 72. No way. Did I
mention I’m 25? I say nothing.

The nurse takes my blood. I say nothing. Some drops of blood drip onto my arm and the counter. She apologizes. I say nothing. She seals the vials of blood and asks me to verify that the name on the label is mine. I nod. Then finally, before I go, I turn to her and say, “146/73, that’s high isn’t it?”. She says, “it’s still in the normal range.” “Yeah right. I’m dying,” I think to myself.

Friday, I go to an interview which I purposefully did not prepare for or think much about. I’m surprised when I’m asked to solve programming problems on the white board. It goes alright. I’m surprised when I’m asked what salary I’d like. I wasn’t prepared. I give a bad answer and then think about it on the way to the train. I call Taylor. We talk but get disconnected. I try to call her back and it fails. I try again. Nothing. I’m in the middle of downtown Seattle. You’d think they’d have service in the middle of the universe.

I get to the train, hop on, take the ride home. When I get off I keep thinking of my answer to the salary question. I think of why it matters and why it doesn’t. If anyone ever told me I’d be thinking about these numbers a few years ago, I’d have told them they’re crazy. I’m crazy.

I can’t believe I forgot to call Taylor. She calls me back as I arrive at my apartment. I cry. I love her.

Saturday morning, I wake up after a long Friday night of work. I go for a run. I come back and make an egg scramble with mushrooms and asparagus. I drink tea and listen to The Rolling Stones in the shower. I take off for a coffeeshop to do work. I keep it from myself that I’m actually going to CVS to use their blood pressure machine.

I get to CVS. There’s no blood pressure machine. I walk uphill about six blocks to the Safeway. No blood pressure machine. I see a Walgreens across the street. The girl at the counter says hi. I smile. I take a couple laps. No machine.

I decide it’s fine. For $80 I ordered the state of the art, number one doctor recommended blood pressure cuff on Amazon one hour after my biometric screening. I can wait until Wednesday. So much for two-day shipping.

I’m not sure where I’m going now. Maybe to a coffeeshop to do some work. Maybe home. I see some tents. I see lots of tents and they’re all lined up down the street like it’s some kind of festival or farmer’s market. It’s a farmer’s market, and it’s the best one I’ve ever seen. There are potatoes and onions, carrots, honey, old guys selling hot sauce, and curly
haired girls in Carhart overalls selling mushrooms. There’s also naan, fried egg sandwiches, goat cheese, wine, bread with Kalamata olives. I see the bread guy and think to myself, “I’ll be back.”

The smells of the market make me forget my heart is racing, aching. I forget my stomach hurt, and that the back of my head felt swollen after my run. I pause at another bread booth. “Those are beautiful,” I say. The lady smiles. Beside her there’s a man in a cat mask playing accordion. Beside him there are crabs. I love crabs.

I meander about for who knows how long. I end up back at the bread guy, the first bread stand I saw out of many. A couple at the booth asks in broken English for a sample. They touch the whole loaf. The bread guy doesn’t like that. The lady in front of me in line asks for half of the Kalamata loaf which costs eight dollars. The bread guy says that’ll be five. She scoffs. He says I’ll take four if you must. She hands him a five-dollar bill. A moment of pure ambiguity ensues. I’m deeply fascinated. The bread guy hands her a dollar back. I gasp.

Now it’s my turn. I have three dollars in my hand, ready to buy a cranberry scone. “Those look great,” I say. He says, “They’re the best. If you like them hearty.” I like them hearty.  

I walk away with my scone. I notice part of my neighborhood that I never recognized before. I think to myself of the farmers market. I forget about blood pressure machines. I feel pleased.

On the way to Café Allegro, where the tea is better than the coffee, I pass Bartell’s drugstore. It’s small, and different from a CVS or Walgreens. I step inside. I peruse the store and smile at a man my age looking at Neutrogena products. I end up in the back of the store. There in the corner I see a blood pressure machine.

I’m not sure if my heart was racing before or during, but as the cuff is closing around my arm, I know that I need to relax. I stare at the eyeglasses. They sell eyeglasses that anyone can just wear? The cuff loosens. The results are displayed immediately. 121/83 with a pulse of 133. No way I think to myself. Some information comes up on the screen. I’ve never been so glad to be reading about pre-hypertension. I consider taking another measurement. “That Amazon cuff will be here soon,” I say to myself. I walk to Café Allegro. I eat my Cranberry scone.
